It so here problem 7.
I battery with five identical bulbs are shown.
What happens when they switches close close up that switch.
Here are some choices.
All five bulbs turn on with equal brightness.
All five bulbs turn on but they don't have equal brightness.
One of the bulbs does not turn on the other four have equal brightness.
Any other choice is to more the bulbs do not turn on one of the bulbs does not turn on the other for
turn on but they dont have equal brightness or you have no idea.
Hopefully you didn't choose that one.
All right.
So the key here is that they are identical.
So if you want to label all of them are you can do that same resistance and we have one voltage here
one battery connected to this.
So first thing you would kind of consider is well there is going to be a current at least in this bridge.
All right are going to have some current Let's call it current.
So what we want to do now is try to argue what is going to be the current in each.
For this I'm going to try to use symmetry I'm going to try really not to write down a lot of equations.
So symmetry means you just compare the different sides and if they kind of look the same it's probably
because things kind have to be the same.
So let's go over here.
Imagine here we have a junction so whatever current is flowing through this branch let's call it a and
the current down in this branch and makes sense to call it IB.
Right we know that from the junction rule that the total current flowing into the junction has to be
the total flowing out.
So you have to have this.
I said I was going to write down any equations that look to me I'm writing down equations boy.
All right.
How about down over here at this end.
Well again let's assume here again the current is going to flow down this resistance.
This will be the current ID and is going to be a current over here.
I e right.
So on the other end I know that the total current I hear is still the same that has to be the same current
everywhere in this branch.
So you also have to have this ID plus IB they're both flowing into the junction.
They have to be what's flowing out of the junction so the other argument you have to say now is well
look at both of these resistors right.
They're both the same.
So why would the current you know if saw we previously talked quite a bit about simplifying networks
of resistors.
Actually if you try to simplify this case here you really can't simplify it in terms of series resistance
only series and sorry parallel networks.
This case doesn't work because of resistance see it complicates things over here.
So you really can't do that for this problem.
It really doesn't work.
No that's why I say we're going to have to use symmetry here.
So these guys don't work but more current.
I say in IAB again since the resistors are kind of the same you should be able to argue that I must
be equal to the current IB because they're all the same over here.
So whatever current flows in has to be the current flowing out.
And likewise I think you should be able to argue that the current ID also must be equal to the current
i.e. the only time you're going to get different currents in different branches is if the resistances
are going to be different if the resistances are the same you always get the same current flowing through
those different branches.
So now once you've kind of argued this case over here.
Well now you consider the voltage across right.
If you do start over here the voltage.
So you at some particular voltage up here.
Call it B and the voltage drop across the resistance are a voltage drop across that resistance.
It's simply that all of the resistance multiplied by the current And that's going to be the same voltage
drop.
If I go crawl across a distance R B so that there must also be equal to this guy.
That's the voltage drop across resistance.
So that means at this point coin 1 and point 2 are at the exact same potential.
And if they are at the exact same potential at the end you should be able to convince yourself that
that is there is no voltage difference between Point 1 and point 2 voltage at point 1 is equal to the
voltage at point 2.
So if there's no voltage difference it means that the current flowing through the resistance C must
be equal to zero.
Because there is no voltage difference.
The only time you get a current current through any point is if there is voltage difference between
the two.
All right so at the end of this the say that the current through this middle is this there if they're
all the same now if one of them is different that's that's going to change the situation.
But if they're all the same.
This is a specific case of a bridge network.
They call this a bridge network.
And we're going to find that there is no current flowing through through the resistance down the middle
and are going to be the same current flowing going every else.
So that means that the brightness of the 4 A B D and E are going to be the same.
So the correct answer has to be choice number three.
I mean one of the bulbs does not turn on.
That will be the see.
And the other four have equal brightness because they have the same current flowing through it.